Bal Kishore Pandey Basisth
Lüttfeld 15A-Zimmer nummer. 416
Lemgo 32645
Germany
Phone: +4917631407584
Email: kishore.basisth@gmail.com

Objective
A full time position in a creative and challenging environment in the field of
computer science.

Personal Information
• Date/Place of birth : June 25, 1989 / India
• Nationality: Indian
• Languages: English, Hindi, Tamil and German(A1 Level)

Education
2010-May 2013 Halmstad University and Hochschule Ostwestfalen-Lippe
Master of Science, Information Technology.

This took place in two countries in collaboration with following universities:
• Halmstad University, Sweden
• Hochschule Ostwestfalen-Lippe, Germany

2006-2010 Anna University, Chennai, India
Bachelor of Technology, Information Technology.



Projects, Thesis & Experience
2012-May 2013 Master’s Thesis
Ostwestfalen-Lippe University of Applied Sciences,Lemgo,Germany
Visualization of Wireless Sensor Data on Apple IOS Devices

The vital goal of the thesis work was to develop a web services to communicate
with different microcontoller inorder to access the sensor data and visualize
the same on an Objective-c client. The thesis work cotained the following tasks:
• Evaluated the status in the field ”Internet of things” with respect to sensor
data visualization.
• Described a software architecture which is transparent with respect to the
particular micro-controller used.
• Designed a URI structure of RESTful web service which is universal to
variety of sensor classes.
• Developed a Javascript based web server using node.js and express & a
database using mongoDB, to host the data from sensor.
• Compared the developed model with OPC-UA.
• Finally a Objective-C client, running on an iOS device to consume the
services and visualize the value from sensor, was designed.


June-September Internship
2012 Transcat PLM GmbH,Karlsruhe,Germany
Conception of a SOA based Load Balancing solution for CATIA QChecker

The internship consisted of following tasks:
• Comparing the various existing load balancing solution that would cater the
need and would fulfill the critieria.
• Implemented SOAP based session handling on the AXIS ? server and client.
• Tested the new architecture with various test cases.

2012 Semester Project
Ostwestfalen-Lippe University of Applied Sciences,Lemgo,Germany
Development of a RESTful web service to access test and measurement instruments
with SCPI interface

The goal was to develop and deploy a RESTful web service, which allows user
to interact with various test instrument connected either via USB, ethernet or
GPIB interface. Python script was used to pass the SCPI comand to the test
instrument. An GUI was developed using Java Swing, which made interaction
easier.

2012 Semester Project
Ostwestfalen-Lippe University of Applied Sciences,Lemgo,Germany
Statistical Parameter Estimation Using Narrowband and Wideband Sensors

The idea behind the project was to compare the performance of Narrow
band and Wide band sensor with respect to cognitive radio and increase the
utilization of the spectrum efficiently. The project was simulated in Matlab.

2011 Semester Project
Halmstad university, Sweden
Embedded system Programming using PIE

Programmed a PIE(Platform for embedded system) using C to follow well
specified paths from square to trajectory of various angles.

2010 Bachelor's Thesis
Anna university, Chennai, India
Spread Method for Dividing the Outlay of Multicast Transmission.

The main objective was to share the cost of Messages being sent and received
by the nodes in a distributed and parallel environment. A method named as
distributed Shapely Value mechanism was developed and simulated in C#.

Technical Skills
• Proficient programming skills: C, C#, JAVA, HTML, Javascript, SQL, XML & JQuery.
• Basic programming skill : C++, Python, Objectice-C, JSON & MongoDB.
• Specifications and Protocols : REST, SOAP & OPC-UA.
• Servers: Aapche tomcat, GlassFish, Jetty and NGINX.
• Frameworks: Aapche camel, Apache Maven, Axis 1 and 2.
• IDE’s and SCM: Eclipse, Netbeans, Xcode and TFS.
• Operating systems: Windows, Mac OSX10.2 & later and Ubuntu.
• Softwares: Lotus Notes, MS office & LATEX.

Relevant CourseWork
Bachelor 
Computer Networks, Operating Systems, Telecommunication System, Object
Oriented Analysis and Design, Visual Programming, Network Programming
and Management, Cryptography and Network Security, Embedded System,
Data Warehousing and Mining, Enterprise Resource Planning.

Master
Signal Analysis and Representation, Multi-Variable Calculus, Image Analysis,
Embedded System Programming, Modern Communication System and Networks,
Wireless Communication System, Real-time Networking, Distributed
Real Time Systems.

Technical Area of Interest
Software Development, Graphic User Interface Design, Testing, Wireless
communication & Networks.

Hobbies
Music, Travelling and Cricket.